Narrator: In a land of myth
and a time of magic...
The destiny of a great kingdom...
Rests on the shoulders of a young man.
His name: Merlin.
- The war has begun.
- It is at camlann that we make our stand.
Merlin: I hoped never to hear that name
again. Gaius: If Arthur goes to camlann...
The prophecy will come true
and he will die.
Morgana: This war can be won.
Well, eira, has sir Gwaine
been forthcoming...
- About Arthur's plans?
- He's kept no secrets from me.
On me!
You wield a power
you cannot yet conceive of.
Your destiny awaits.
Gwen: Bandages!
I need bandages!
Emrys!
For the love of Camelot!
Gwen: Who is that?
- Someone truly remarkable.
You know him?
Let's just say
he deserves our gratitude.
You gave me no choice.
My lady.
The battle is won.
The saxons are in full retreat.
They're making for the hills.
I've dispatched 200 men
to drive our advantage home.
And Arthur?
- We'll keep looking.
- Thank you.
Oh, I'll need some fresh water.
Merlin
how are you feeling?
- Aah!
- Easy.
Lie back. Lie back.
Where have you been?
- It doesn't matter now.
- Oh! My si... my side.
You're bleeding.
That's all right. I thought I was dying.
I'm sorry. I thought I'd
defied the prophecy.
I thought I was in time.
What are you talking about?
I defeated the saxons.
The dragon, and yet...
And yet I knew it was mordred
that I must stop.
The person who defeated them...
Was the sorcerer.
It was me.
Don't be ridiculous, Merlin.
This is stupid. Wh...?
Why would you say that?”
I'm...
I'm a sorcerer.
I have magic.
And I use it for you, Arthur.
- Only for you.
- Merlin, you are not a sorcerer.
I would know. Look here.
I eave me.
- Arthur.
- Don't... just... you heard.
Just
Three more patrols have returned from
the white mountains, my lady.
There is no sign of him.
He must be somewhere.
We have spoken to every villager,
every man, woman, child.
Th... there has been no word.
He is out there.
We will keep searching.
He is alive.
I know it.
I can feel it.
Who else is still unaccounted for?
(Saius.
- He's not been seen?
- Not since the battle
Any change? No.
I et me see.
Is that all you got?
The hills are crawling with saxons.
- There's no yarrow, no lady's mantle?
- I've got comfrey.
You should've got sticklewort.
There must've been sticklewort.
Merlin, why don't you water the horses?
And make sure they're fed.
We can't hide here for much longer.
He's a sorcerer.
You knew. “Arthur.
- He is your friend.
- I want him gone.
- There is no need to fear him.
- Have him take word to Camelot _
- To Guinevere.
- We cannot send Merlin. I will go.
I need a physician right
now, not a sorcerer.
He can do far more than me,
far more than you can ever imagine.
Arthur.
He doesn't just have magic.
There are those who say...
Ne's the greatest sorcerer
ever to walk the earth.
- Merlin?
- If you are to stand any chance of survival...
You will need Merlin
to help you, not me.
(Gaius?
There's a fragment of sword
embedded in his chest.
Well, we'll use magic to draw it out.
No.
The blade that struck Arthur
was no ordinary blade.
I fear it was forged
in a dragon's breath.
Its fatal power will not be easily denied.
- Aithusa?
- The blade's point...
Is traveling inexorably
towards his heart.
Not even you could hope
to thwart such magic.
It would take a power as ancient
as the dragons themselves.
No, there must be something
that we can do, Gaius.
Only the sidhe possess such magic.
In the midst of the lake of avalon
there is an ancient isle.
That is the source of their power.
You must take him there.
- He won't allow that.
- He will
I spoke to him.
The battle is not over, mordred.
We will have our revenge.
Arthur?
We need to leave at first light.
I'll decide.
I can't let you die.
It doesn't change anything.
Let him sleep.
It's late
You cannot travel tonight.
You were right to tell him.
My lady, we have searched
every valley...
Every gorge, every gully.
- The king is nowhere to be found.
- I want him dead!
We've looked!
Find him.
(Saius.
(Give this to Guinevere.
It's the royal seal, sire.
“If I am to die
I can think of no one
who I would rather succeed me.
Merlin:
You know he was betrayed.
- The girl eira cannot be trusted.
- I know.
How long does he have?
At best, two days.
Merlin
I'll have your favorite meal
waiting for you.
Now go. Look after him.
(50.
- Gaius.
- My lady.
- Tell me.
- He's alive.
Then why isn't he with you?
He is wounded.
He wanted me to give you this, my lady.
- Where is he?
- There is a place where he may be saved.
Merlin is taking him there
as we speak.
Well, we must send the knights.
- Ready as many men as you can.
- No, my lady.
Merlin can cope by himself.
Merlin?
- You must trust him.
- How can one man be as strong as an army?
Morgana's forces are still
searching for Arthur.
Two men traveling alone stand a much
better chance of evading her...
Especially if she has no idea
where they're heading.
Eira: Hey. What is it?
- Tell me.
- Can't
why not?
Is it the king?
What's happened to him?
(Gwaine? Is he dead?
- No.
- How do you know? Where is he?
(Waine?
Don't you trust me?
I do.
Then tell me.
Merlin: Saxons.
I'll deal with them
keep your head down.
Don't speak.
Help us!
Please, you have to help us...
We were ambushed.
- By who?
- These two men.
- What they look like”?
Merlin: Uh
one was a... a knight.
They stormed our camp.
You're sure it was a Camelot knight?
Yeah
You've lied to me all this time.
Why don't you use magic?
Habit, I suppose.
It feels strange.
Yeah
I thought I knew you.
I'm still the same person.
I trusted you.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, too.
What are you doing?
They need drying.
Gwaine: Eira.
- I... I was just...
- Sending word to morgana?
No. My lady...
I wouldn't do that. I wouldn't betray you
or the king.
And you didn't. You can go to your death
safe in that knowledge.
Your note will send your mistress
riding for brineved...
And all the while,
the king will be traveling...
In the opposite direction. Guards!
(Wainel
Gwaine. Gwaine, please!
Merlin:
This will be good for you.
- You need to eat.
- Why are you doing this?
Why are you...?
Still behaving like a servant?
It's my destiny...
As it has been since the day we met.
I tried to take your head off
with a mace.
And I stopped you using magic.
You cheated. Yeah.
- You were going to kill me.
- I should have.
I'm glad you didn't.
I do this because of who you are.
Without you, Camelot's nothing.
There was a time when
that was true. Not now.
There are many who can fill the crown.
Never be another like you, Arthur.
Oh, I also do this...
Because you're my friend
and I don't want to lose you.
You called for me, my lady?
I want to thank you, Gaius.
“What for?
Unmasking eira.
I shall forever be in your debt...
And Merlin's.
- Was it he that found Arthur?
- He's a good servant.
He's always been there at Arthur's side.
Indeed.
The sorcerer in the battle...
You knew who he was.
Yes
do I know him?
Please, Gaius, answer me honestly.
Yes
he'll take good care of Arthur.
Yes, I'm sure he will.
I'm pleased.
You know what you said what you'd do...
If you ever found morgana?
Well, we've got a good idea
where she'll be heading.
Arthur, you need to hold on...
One more day.
Why did you never tell me?
I wanted to, but...
What?
You'd have chopped my head off.
I'm not sure what I'd have done.
And I didn't want
to put you in that position.
That's what worried you?
Some men are born to.
Plow fields...
Some live to be
great physicians, others...
To be great kings.
Me?
I was born to serve you, Arthur.
And I'm proud of that...
And I wouldn't change a thing.
Ready?
Position lookouts
for the king's approach.
Did you really think
you could outwit me?
Arthur: Saxons?
- They're long gone.
- How do you know?
I can... see the path ahead.
So you're not an idiot.
That was another lie.
No, it's just
another part of my charm.
Tell me where the king is.
- I'd rather die.
- Then you shall have your wish...
Once you've told me.
Not even you, sir knight...
Can resist the charms of the nathair.
In there.
Right.
You've done this before.
All these years, Merlin...
You never once sought any credit.
That's not why I do it.
Come on.
She's riding for avalon.
(Swaine.
I failed.
No, you haven't.
(Gwaine. Gwaine.
Arthur!
- I can't go on.
- There's not far to go.
- We need to reach the lake before dawn.
- No, Merlin. No.
All right.
We rest for an hour.
Merlin
whatever happens...
Shh don't talk.
I'm the king, Merlin.
You can't tell me what to do.
I always have.
I'm not going to change now.
I don't want you to change.
I want you to always...
Be you.
I'm sorry about how I treated you.
Hey, does that mean...? Does that mean
you're gonna give me a day off?
Two.
That's generous.
Get some sleep.
Arthur, we need to get moving.
Arthur.
We've wasted enough time.
Merlin: Avalon. We'll get there.
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Whoa! Morgana: Hello, emrys.
What a joy it is to see you, Arthur.
Look at you... not so tall and mighty now.
You may have won the battle,
but you've lost the war.
You're going to die by mordred's hand.
Oh, don't worry, dear brother,
I won't let you die alone.
I will stay and watch over you...
Until the wolves gorge
on your carcass and bathe in your blood.
No the time for all this bloodshed is over.
I blame myself
for what you've become...
But this has to end.
I'm a high priestess.
No mortal blade can kill me.
This is no mortal blade.
Like yours,
it was forged in a dragon's breath.
Goodbye, morgana.
All right.
- Brought peace at last.
- Come on.
Come on.
We have to make it to the lake.
Merlin.
Not without the horses.
We can't. It's too late. It's too late.
It's too
all your magic, Merlin,
and you can't save my life.
- I can. I'm not going to lose you.
- Just... just... just hold me.
Please.
There's... there's so...
There's something I want to say.
You're not going to say goodbye.
No.
Merlin
everything you've done...
I know now.
For me, for Camelot...
For the kingdom you helped me build...
You'd have done it without me.
Maybe.
I want to say something I've never...
Said to you before...
Th... thank you.
Arthur. Hey.
No. Arthur.
Arthur!
Stay with me.
Arthur.
No
Arthur! Aah!
Merlin: Kilgharrah!
I would not have summoned you
if there was any other choice.
I have one last favor to ask.
Kilgharrah: Merlin
there is nothing you can do.
- I've failed?
- No, young warlock...
For all that you have dreamt
of building has come to pass.
I can't lose him!
- He's my friend!
- Though no man, no matter how great...
Can know his destiny...
Some lives have
been foretold, Merlin.
Arthur is not just a king.
He is the once and future king.
Take heart
for when albion's need is greatest...
Arthur will rise again.
It has been a privilege
to have known you, young warlock.
The story we have been a part of...
Will live long in the minds of men.
Arthur.
The king is dead.
Long live the queen!
All:
Long live the queen! Long live the queen!
Long live the queen!
Narrator: Merlin